FR-CH-01: Registration. Any general public should be able to register to the Crownpass system to obtain a Crownpass ID. The minimal information required for registration is a real photo of the person. A Crownpass holder may also submit, but optional, the following data to the system: mobile phone number, email address, home address, name, gender, and date of birth. (Priority: High) 
FR-CH-02: Print Pass. A successfully registered Crownpass holder should be able to print his/her pass on a normal sheet of paper that consists of a photo of the pass and a QR code (also known as 2D barcode) that represents the pass holder’s identifier. (Priority: High)
FR-CH-03: Display Pass. A successfully registered Crownpass holder should be able to display his/her pass on the screen of his/her mobile phone where the Crownpass Holder App runs. It should contain a photo of the pass holder and a QR code (also known as 2D barcode) that represents the pass holder’s identifier, and the infection state of the pass in colour code of Green, Amber and Red as defined in Section 1, and the vaccination state in colour code of White, Light Blue, Dark Blue as defined in Section 1. (Priority: High)
FR-CH-04: Check state. A successfully registered Crownpass holder should be able to show the states of his/her pass on the screen of his/her mobile phone where the Crownpass Holder App runs. (Priority: High) 
FR-CH-05: Check trace. A successfully registered Crownpass holder should be able to display his/her movement trace (i.e. the sequence of areas) that he/she has entered in a period of time of his/her choice on the screen of his/her mobile phone where the Crownpass Holder App runs. (Priority: Medium) 
FR-CH-06: Web Access. A successfully registered Crownpass holder should be able to access the following data of the pass holder by entering Crownpass ID: (a) Pass state, (b) Contact details, (c) Movement trace; where certain details can be reset, while other data cannot be modified by the pass holder. (Priority: Medium)
FR-CH-07: Notification. The system should be able to notify the Crownpass holder when his/her pass state is changed. (Priority: Medium)
FR-CH-08: Self Check-in and Check-out. The system should be able to enable the Crownpass holders to check-in to and/or check-out from a controlled area using the Crownpass Holder App running on a mobile phone. (Priority: Medium)
FR-CH-09: Book Vaccination. A Crownpass holder should be provided a facility to book a vaccination at a vaccine station/centre on an available date and time slot of his/her choice. (Priority: Low)

